---
description: A list of Accumulate-centric terminology and definitions
---

# Glossary

### Accumulate Network

The Accumulate network is a collection of independent chains. Each chain is managed by a hierarchy of identities known as Accumulate Digital Identifiers (ADIs), and each identity possesses a hierarchy of keys that allow it to participate in the execution of transactions.

### Accumulate Digital Identifier (ADI)

An ADI is the account which can hold accounts under itself. These sub accounts are different chains that store information on the Accumulate Network. An ADI can have different chains that it manages i.e. Token Account Chain, Data Chain, Scratch Chain, Token Issuance Chain, Key Chain, Managed Chains. An ADI name can be customized based on preferences.

### ADI Token Account

Tokens are held by identities in an ADI Token Account. ADI Token Accounts can send transactions to other Lite Accounts or ADI Token Accounts.

### ADI Data Account

An ADI can contain data account. We call this an ADI data account. It is a layer that allows ADI accounts to add and organize data to the blockchain.

### sub-ADI

An ADI can contain another ADI. We call this a sub-ADI. While an ADI contains accounts, a sub-ADI contains sub-accounts.

### Lite Token Account

Accounts that are not tied to an Identity but can send transactions using ACME. Lite Accounts that can send transactions to other Lite Accounts or ADI Token Accounts. Lite Accounts are URL based but have a series of hexadecimal characters. Lite accounts can also hold credits.

### Keypage

A Key Page holds a list of the hash of public keys and determines signature specifications (single-sig, multi-sig). Keypages can also hold credits within the ADI.

### Keybook

A Key Book maintains a set of key pages ordered by priority.

### Keys

Keys are signatures that are required for submitting transaction.

### Admin Keys

Admin Keys are used to make changes to keys and key types that are used to manage an identity. Admin keys have priorities. The highest priorities can be kept in cold storage, while the lower priority keys are in active use to maintain an Identity. Admin keys can be replaced or retired with any sort of key signature as needed to manage the identity.

### Token Keys

Token Keys authorize token transactions. They can be restricted to particular tokens.

### Data Keys

Data Keys authorize data writes to data chains. They can be restricted to particular data chains.

### Credits

Credits are a non-transferable form of payment on the Accumulate Network. As user converts ACME tokens to purchase credits. Credits are then used for actions on the network such as the creation of an ADI, ADI Token Account, or Updating Keys in a Key Page.

### Token Issuance

Any identity can issue tokens; however these tokens cannot be converted into entry credits, only ACME tokens can be used to buy entry credits.

### Synthetic Transaction

Transaction processing runs in parallel with blockchain syncronization.

### Scratch Space

Scratch space is a data chain that gets pruned.

### Minor Block

Minor blocks are the sync points generated by listening to Tendermint. A minor block is both:
 A) a set of transactions delineated by BeginBlock and EndBlock/Commit, and 
 B) the changes written to the database as a result of processing those transactions. Tendermint decides what transactions go into a block.

### Pending Chain

A Pending Chain is a blockchain that holds submitted transactions until they are promoted to the main chain or rejected by a validator or a majority of signators to a key page. A valid token transaction will be promoted to the main chain if it follows Accumulate validity rules and is approved by a validator. A transaction on a managed chain may be promoted to the main chain after collecting M of N signatures on a key page.

### Managed Chain

All transactions (fully validated or not) go on the Pending Chain. A separate Key Book validates transactions in the Pending Chain and promotes them (possibly with modification) to the main chain. Managed Chains can validate the destinations of tokens to ensure that the tokens remain on Managed Chains (so rules can be imposed over the entire protocol, even if tokens are moved to other ADIs).

### Block Validator Network (BVN)

A tendermint network of nodes that execute transactions against records. BVNs act as independent blockchains that build blocks for parts of the Accumulate blockchain. BVNs serve as their own roots of possible nodes, breaking up the job of validating transactions. BVN Sub-chains hold Merkle roots of chains collected and managed by a BVN. Effectively allows the sharding of BVN nodes, which in turn shard Accumulate.

### Block Validator Network Node (BVNN)

The Validator nodes within the Block Validator Network (BVN) are the BVN Nodes(BVNN).

### Directory Network (DN)

BVNs are tied together by a blockchain called the DN that builds directory blocks for Accumulate. The DN collects the summary hash for all the BVNs and puts them in a directory block for every block period. In this way, the DN acts as a directory service for Accumulate, and resolves questions about the state of Accumulate at every block. 

### Directory Network Node (DNN)

The Validator nodes within the Directory Network (DN) are the DN Nodes(DNN).

### Anchor Chain

A chain that aggregates anchors from other chains (transactions, merkle tree & BVNs) capturing the states of the network.


### Staking

It is the process that involves committing your ACME tokens to support the Accumulate network and confirm transactions.

### Delegated Staking

Staking with the ability for ACME holders to contribute to a Validator's stake is Delegated Staking. ACME holders can delegate their stake to a validator which will increase that validator's voting/influence power.

### Layer-1 Anchoring

