# Staking Guide

{% hint style="danger" %}
**All staked tokens will be hard locked until May 5th, 2023.** Staked tokens will be completely inaccessible (cannot be withdrawn or unstaked) until after this date.
{% endhint %}

Fundamentally there are three ways to stake your tokens:&#x20;

### **Pure staking**&#x20;

Pure staking is staking your tokens solely for the purpose of staking them (and receiving rewards). Pure staking requires a minimum staked balance of 50,000 ACME. Pure staking has no risk of slashing and comes with no obligations but generates lower yields than operator staking.

**Pure Staking will come in a later release**&#x20;

### **Operator staking**&#x20;

Registered operators of protocol nodes must maintain a minimum staked balance of 50,000 ACME. Registered operators have obligations and hardware expenditures depending on the type of node they run and may be slashed for downtime, negligence, abuse of their privileges, and other offenses. Registered operators are rewarded at a higher rate than pure stakers.

### **Delegated staking**&#x20;

Delegated staking is delegating your staked tokens to another pure staker or operator. Delegated staking requires a minimum staked balance of 1,000 ACME. The staker you delegate to takes a 10% fee from the rewards generated by your staked tokens. If you delegate to an operator, your tokens generate higher yields than if you delegate to a pure staker. However, if you delegate to an operator and the operator is slashed, your stake is also slashed.

### **CLI Setup**&#x20;

For quickest setup, download the binary for the Accumulate Command Line Wallet [here](https://gitlab.com/accumulatenetwork/core/wallet/-/jobs/artifacts/v0.3.3/browse?job=build%20binaries). If you are running macOS on an Intel-based computer, use accumulate-darwin-amd64. If you are running macOS on an Apple-silicon computer, use accumulate-darwin-arm64. You can then execute commands by typing in the path to where the binary is downloaded and appending any command. If you want to build the CLI from source, see the [CLI setup guide](https://docs.accumulatenetwork.io/accumulate/cli/cli-setup).

### Staking your account

{% hint style="info" %}
**Staking tokens gives custody of those tokens over to the staking system** unless and until they are unstaked. The transaction will remain pending until the Staking Service takes custody of your tokens.
{% endhint %}

Accumulate Command Line Interface Usage:

```
./accumulate staking convert <token account> <signing key> [flags]
```

Flags:&#x20;

\--delegate url The account the stake should be delegated to -h, --help help for staking&#x20;

\--rewards url Staking rewards account, if rewards should not be sent back into the staking account&#x20;

\--type StakingType Type of staking account (pure, delegated, core-validator, core-follower, or staking-validator) (default inactive)

\<token account> **** = an Accumulate Digital Identitifier (ADI) token accounts e.g. acc://Example.acme/tokens. For instructions on how to [Create an ADI](https://docs.accumulatenetwork.io/accumulate/tutorials/create-an-adi-via-cli).

Create an ADI Token Account:&#x20;

accumulate account create token \[actor adi] \[signing key name] \[key index (optional)] \[key height (optional)] \[new token account url] \[tokenUrl (e.g. acc://ACME)] \[keyBook (optional)] \[flags]&#x20;

./accumulate account create token example.acme examplekey example.acme/tokens acc://ACME



\<signing key> = a Key within the ADI Token Account’s Key Book.

It will be a string which you have created or was created for you. For example: AccountKey or BobsAccountKey

### **Delegated Staking Example Command:**

./accumulate staking convert hello.acme/staking ben --delegate example.acme --rewards hello.acme/staking --type delegated You will then be prompted with the following: Password: “enter your password” You should then see something like the following if the transaction is successful:

```
Transaction Hash : 44c8e094d31e08cf13881591e812d27c342398858fa20cb70927e243e7830d3b
Signature 0 Hash : 6cb358549a29cfa4086851b9c47c2aa57d3bb284ef59568b059393d735a4ea6a
Simple Hash : d46e44f59efb4d6d4be73550d8c92a82338351ab7c2079ba88c404cd04c6eb1b
Error code : ok
```

### **Delegate List**

#### Operators

* **DeFiDevs.acme**
* **Highstakes.acme**
* **ConsensusNetworks.acme**
* **Factoshi.acme**
* **TFA.acme**
* **StampIt.acme**
* **Kompendium.acme**
* **FederateThis.acme**
* **LunaNova.acme**
* **GOI.acme**
* **Codeforj.acme**
* **ACMEMining.acme**
* **BetaNode.acme**
* **ConquistadorMining.acme**
* **BartowStreetCapital.acme**
* **NTC.acme**
* **CryptoFund.acme**
* **CryptoStash.acme**
* **Pavilion.acme**
* **MusicCityNode.acme**
* **TurtleBoat.acme**
* **OrchardHouse.acme**
* **CryptoStake.acme**
* **AtlantaNode.acme**
* **AthensNode.acme**
* **CryptoPoint.acme**
* **CryptoPool.acme**
* **ZekeInvestments.acme**
* **Dolphins1972.acme**
* **MetisMining.acme**
* **VideFutura.acme**
* **Everest.acme**
* **NutshellTechnologies.acme**
* **Inveniam.acme**
* **Arsr.acme**
* **PrestigeIT.acme**
* **Defacto.acme**
* **p16redstone.acme**\
